---
layout: post
title: "Reading 04"
date: 2024-09-29 23:21:00 -0400
category: blog
---

> Is Paul Graham's version of a hacker compatible with Steven Levy's description? Do his arguments for and description of the modern hacker change your mind about what it means to be a hacker or the desirability of being one?

I gotta say I hate the way Paul Graham describes static typing, and it's people like him that write code that looks and reads like vomit.

> "\[A\] programming language should, above all, be malleable. A programming language is for thinking of programs, not for expressing programs you've already thought of. It should be a pencil, not a pen. Static typing would be a fine idea if people actually did write programs the way they taught me to in college. But that's not how any of the hackers I know write programs. We need a language that lets us scribble and smudge and smear, not a language where you have to sit with a teacup of types balanced on your knee and make polite conversation with a strict old aunt of a compiler."

The way I see it, static typing verifies that you actually understand the process of the program at each step, and that you're not just spewing spaghetti everywhere and beating it with a bat until it wiggles perfectly, luckily, coincidentally into place. If I can't be certain of the data type of the data stored in a variable at all times during execution, I can't guarantee I even know what the variable contains, and if I can't guarantee what a variable contains, well what do I know at all about the code I am writing? Nothing.

But I digress. As funny as it is to write in hyperbole like Graham, the main topic of this blog is to compare Graham's and Levy's definition of a hacker.

Graham says that hackers are makers. Hackers learn by hacking. And this is true. Most professional programmers learn mostly from free online resources, according to [Stack Overflow](https://survey.stackoverflow.co/2024/developer-profile/#learning-to-code).

This brings me to another point I realized relatively recently. CS degree is not equal to a job in CS. A CS degree helps you get a job in CS, but it won’t fully qualify you for a software engineering job. CS is broad, so the degree gives you the foundation. The best way to get software engineering experience (beyond the degree) is self-learning through free online resources. This aligns with Graham's opinion that hackers are makers.

But Graham writes about hackers as embodying Americanness too. He describes Americanness as a quality of unruliness and questioning authority. The latter is particularly similar to Levy's description of hackers.

Unfortunately, even the Constitution of 1787 had a clause protecting the intellectual property of authors and inventors, such an ideal that the true hackers would not have stood by. In a loose sense, I see what Graham means, and it certainly imbues me with passion and good feelings of patriotism, but if I think about it objectively, there are differences.

Nonetheless, I believe Graham's and Levy's descriptions of a hacker are mostly compatible. I think Graham's description is certainly more desirable than Levy's description of the true hackers: those that go against the grain and fight for freedom; those that truly embrace the American ideal of freedom to its fullest. This definition does make me desire to be a hacker.
